Update the docs for GitHub sync (#332)
statelyai/docs: docs/import-from-github.mdx

---

> title: Connect GitHub repo

Reviewer: I may have missed a conversation about this but is this like a "Docs title" for the feature as opposed to "GitHub Sync" we use elsewhere?

Reviewer: After reading the rest of the p age I see this is really the button's name so it makes more sense as a lead in. Anyway, I was just wondering because it stood out (3 words longer, bold) in the left sidebar.

Author: @kevinmaes it’s because it’s not named GitHub sync anywhere in the interface. This is a bit like the Stately Sky situation, where folks didn’t know where to find it because while we were calling it Stately Sky publicly, nowhere in the Studio said Stately Sky. I’m trying to avoid that problem by making the docs naming follow the UI naming!

Reviewer: That sounds good!

description: 'Sync your machines from GitHub with Stately Studio.'
---

You can connect a GitHub repo to a new project in Stately Studio, keeping updates between GitHub and Stately Studio in sync. Connecting a GitHub repo allows you to import your existing machines from GitHub and push changes to your machines back to your repo as pull requests.

:::studio

> Connect GitHub repo is a premium feature of Stately Studio. You can try Stately Studio’s premium plans with a free trial. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](studio-pro-plan.mdx), [Team plan](studio-team-plan.mdx), [Enterprise plan](studio-enterprise-plan.mdx) or [upgrade your existing plan](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

Reviewer: Adding this comment here because this paragraph links to the Stately Studio Pro Plan page. Should we also include updating "GitHub Sync (coming soon!)" by removing the "(coming soon!)"?

Reviewer: And I guess that Pro feature bullet point can then link back to this page as well.

Author: Yes, thanks! I’ll do this.

:::

## Connect GitHub repo

There are three steps to setting up your GitHub repo as a connected project:

> 1. Select the repo. You can choose the repos based on your GitHub permissions.

Reviewer: I love the clarity of just 3 simple steps to get started here and notably they align with the "Steps 1/3" in the modal UI for the feature. However, I didn't see where we actually mention "Connect GitHub repo" as a button or where to find that button. Do we want to start with something like this to kick it off?

"Upon clicking the Connect GitHub repo button, just above your projects on the My Projects or Team Projects pages, there are three steps to setting up your GitHub repo as a connected project."

If that's too long, we can cut out some words.

"On the My Projects or Team Projects pages, click the Connect GitHub repo button and follow these three steps to set up your GitHub repo as a connected project."

2. Select the branch. You can choose any branch in your repo.
3. Choose the files you want to sync. You can sync any JavaScript or TypeScript files, but only XState machines will be imported.

### Auto-sync

Enabling **auto-sync** will automatically fetch the latest changes from your connected repository every time you open or refresh the project in the Studio.

> Disable auto-sync from the GitHub options from the <Github size={18}/> repository name in the footer of the left drawer.

Reviewer: TODO in the near future would be to expand on how not selecting auto-sync works. This is one of the "beta" features that we're still refining before we go into detail here. For now, we'll encourage keeping autoSync turned on, by default.

### Path for new files

> You can choose a **Path for new files** for when you create new machines in this connected project. These machines will be added at this relative path from the root of your repo. The default path is **src/stately-studio** and will be created in your repo when you create your first pull request in the Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose a **Path for new files** for when you create new machines in this connected project. These machines will be added at this relative path from the root of your repo. The default path is **src/stately-studio** and will be created in your repo the firs time you add new machines from Studio to a pull request.
```

@mellson Can you confirm that this is accurate, that it only adds this folder when needed? Otherwise, I can test it out tomorrow.

Reviewer 2: Correct: It only adds this on demand. If the folder doesn't already exist, it will be added when the first pull request is created in the Studio.

Reviewer: @laurakalbag I have a typo in my suggestion, "firs time". Sorry.

### Create pull request

Open the GitHub options from the <Github size={18}/> repository name in the footer of the left drawer. You can create pull requests from the GitHub options for any changes made to your machine.

> #### Update pull request

Reviewer: Since there's just "Create pull request" and "Update pull request" should we make both the same level with `###` The spacing between them is less when one is nested but it looks slightly off with only one child. No strong opinion here though.

Author: I made it a subheading because it’s supplementary to the information about pull requests (because you need to have made a pull request to update a pull request)

If you have already created a pull request for your machine, you can update the pull request with any changes you have made in the Studio. Open the GitHub options from the <Github size={18}/> repository name in the footer of the left drawer and choose **Update pull request**.

### Sync multiple branches

You can sync multiple branches in your GitHub repo to the same project in Stately Studio. Open the GitHub branch options from the branch name in the footer of the left drawer to choose additional branches.

### Sync new machines created in Stately Studio

> Creating a new machine in Stately Studio in a connected project will flag the machine in your Machines list as **Not synced with GitHub**. You can sync the machine with your GitHub repo by [creating a pull request from the GitHub options](#create-pull-request) from the <Github size={18}/> repository name in the footer of the left drawer.

Reviewer: Here's a thought that's not exclusive to this paragraph but it would probably help to refer to the modal UI that is opened from "repository name in the footer of the left drawer" as "GitHub Settings". That's what the menu item is named in Editor Menu > Project > GitHub Settings where it opens the same modal. If we start to use that terminology it'll be easier to document its contents from now on. We don't want to be stuck having to refer to the repo name in the footer of the left drawer if we can train users to think "GitHub Settings" after they learn how to open that from both locations (footer and Editor Menu).

Author: @kevinmaes I’m wary of using names when they’re not visible in the UI. Right now there’s no button that says “GitHub settings”, so as frustratingly verbose as the explanation is, it tells them where to find it.
